Add budgeting docs (#27606)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloud_cost_management/budgeting.md

---
title: Budgeting
further_reading:
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Cost Management"
---

## Overview
After you start ingesting your costs in Cloud Cost Management, set up budgets and easily visualize how you're tracking against budgets.

## Create a budget

1. Enter the following details:
   1. **Budget Name**
   2. **Start Date** - This can be a past month. Budgets are set at the month level.

>    3. **End Date** - The end date can be in the future. Note: If both the start and end dates are in the past, you can not view that budget's status at this time.

Author: Actually, since today it  can be viewed - so I removed the note! This was a feature that required additional work from our FE engineers!

   4. **Provider(s)** - Budget on any combination of AWS, Azure, Google Cloud,g any SaaS, Custom Costs, and even Datadog costs.
   5. **Dimension to budget by** - Specify a dimension to track the budget, along with the corresponding values. For example, if you have team budgets, for the top 4 teams, you would select "team" in the first dropdown, and the specific teams in the second dropdown.

{{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-creation-view.png" alt="Budget Creation View: fill in budget details">}}

2. Fill in all budgets in the table - you can automatically copy values from the first month to the rest of the months by clicking the copy button.

> {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-create-table.png" alt="Budget Creation View: fill in all budgets">}}

Author: I removed the 60% because it looked weird imo - I also had added a screenshot but idk why it got removed  :/

> {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-create-table.png" alt="Budget Creation View: fill in all budgets">}}

Author: it would look like this -- so I removed the style
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bc390913-a7aa-49d6-8c12-1df35ab488c7)

3. Click **Save** in the bottom right

{{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-create-save.png" alt="Budget Creation View: click save">}}

## View budget status
The Budgets Page[1] lists all of your organization's budgets, highlighting budgets that are over budget, who created the budget,
and more details. Click on **View Performance** to investigate the budget, and understand what might be causing you to go over budget.

{{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-list.png" alt="List all budgets">}}

> You can view the budget status in the current month or the full duration of the budget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

From the **View Performance** page, you can toggle the view option from the top left:

```

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Note: You can not view budget vs actuals before 15 months, since cost metrics have 15 month retention at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot view budget versus actuals before 15 months, since cost metrics have 15 month retention at this time.
```

</div>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can view the budget status for the **current month**:
```

> {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-status-month.png" alt="Budget Status View: view current month">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-status-month-1.png" alt="Budget Status View: view current month">}}
```

Author: Is the `-1` added intentionally here?

> {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-status-all.png" alt="Budget Status View: view total budget">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Or can view the budget status for the **entire duration**:
   {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgeting/budget-status-all.png" alt="Budget Status View: view total budget">}}
```

## Investigate budgets

> Filter budgets using the "Filter to" at the top, or "Apply filter" in the table to investigate dimensions that are over budget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To investigate budgets:

1. From the **Budgets** page, filter budgets using the "Filter to" at the top, or "Apply filter" in the table to investigate dimensions that are over budget.
```

Reviewer: I'm not seeing the filter options in the UI...

> Click on "Copy Link" to send the budget to others to help understand why budgets are going over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Copy Link** to share the budget with others to help understand why budgets are going over.
```

> Or, share budgets with finance so that they can understand how you're tracking against budgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Or, share budgets with finance so that they can understand how you're tracking against budgets.
```

## Delete budget

> Click the trash icon on the Budgets page, or within an individual budget, to delete the budget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a budget, click the trash icon on the Budgets page or within an individual budget.
```
